Some places have what it takes to help write the story of your life, to help you create and live your life to the fullest: opportunities, people and experiences that open minds and doors; activities that enrich and entertain. Places so welcoming that you feel you’re in the presence of family and friends, and that everywhere you turn, you find yourself in good company.
As the capital of East Carolina, Greenville is that place.
Here, life’s a graceful balance of front-porch friendly and business-world sharp, a balance lit up and alive with all the amenities of a metro, University town. Where we enjoy the company of our neighbors on summer nights, talking on the porch about the day’s news and sports scores from the latest Pirate’s game, until someone flips a coin to see who’ll run out for BBQ.
Walking through the streets of Greenville, you see it has its share of art galleries, museums and festivals that delight; or, close by, the campus of East Carolina University calls to art and culture lovers with its worldly offering of musical concerts, theatrical and dance productions, travel films and lectures. For students with the fire of the future shining in their eyes, ready to turn their dreams loose, the campus calls to them in another voice.
Yes, you’ll find what you’re looking for here. But in many cases (and maybe this is just as important) what you didn’t even know you were looking for. That’s the way it is in Greenville. What makes it tick is how it makes people tick. As the cultural, educational and economic hub of the region, it’s expansive; it rewards the curious imagination, the entrepreneurial mind.
If you’re a person with big ideas and big ambitions, Greenville is good company. The smart thinking, hard work and optimism that once made Greenville a leading marketer of tobacco are still prevalent, though now guiding the area’s technology focus with its many bioscience and robotics breakthroughs. No surprise, these victories are trumpeted with as much enthusiasm as the local sports team’s trophy season.
Located just inland off the North Carolina coast, East of I-95, over 20 parks grace the landscape of Greenville and Pitt County. So if you’re an outdoor enthusiast, you’ll find enough adventure and scenic beauty here to fill up the canvas of your days, and plenty of like-minded people who share your respect for the grandeur of nature, the intoxicating fragrance of our Magnolia trees, picnicking under the shade of oaks, fishing at sundown, or hiking down a path that leads you not to the trail’s end, but to the conclusion that this is where you belong.
True, in some parts of the world, when you say the word “Capital” people think “crowded”, “faceless”, “too noisy to hear myself think”. But we’re different.
There are crowds … parades down Main Street. An Annual Halloween street party. Students streaming to classes. Participants at major meeting or conferences. Or onlookers gathered down at Extreme Park to watch BMX bike pros practicing for an event.
But they’re not faceless crowds.
There is noise … live music rising from the campus nightlife scene, the hub-bub around the Convention Center, or when the Pirates rally to make the winning score, nothing short of pandemonium.
But our noise makes your spirits soar.
In fact, you could say that the hustle and bustle of life in Greenville is conducive to a higher level of thinking and inspiration. One thing’s for sure, the first thought on your mind will be how glad you are to be in Greenville, North Carolina, smack dab in the middle of such good company.