 Washington is located in north central Kansas on US Highway 36, and is the county seat for Washington County.   We are proud of our community, schools, churches, organizations, and especially our people.

While in Washington, please take time to explore some of our attractions. 

Washington is home to KSDS, a unique dog-training center for highly-trained canine social and service dogs who provide assistance to disabled and blind individuals with a better life of independence.   

Stop by one of 2009’s Eighth Wonders of Kansas, Marcon Pies, and enjoy a “little slice of heaven”!  Marcon was founded by two local residents, and continues to expand its’ distribution across the Midwest. 

Washington’s downtown business district is home to a variety of shopping experiences to indulge in, and several merchants you just won’t find anywhere else!  Our industrial park continues to develop with an eye toward the future of our community. 

The Washington County Historical Society offers the opportunity to take a stroll back in time and browse through our area’s history.  It also provides a valuable resource for genealogical research.

The Washington City Park showcases our community-built playground, Munchkinland, and includes a walking fitness trail.  Other features include a zero-depth entry pool, constructed in 2010, fishing area, ball diamonds, tennis, basketball and sand volleyball courts, and a racetrack, which offer additional recreational opportunities.

Once again, I welcome you to Washington.  Whether you are a resident or visitor, I hope that you have the opportunity to participate in community events, attend one of our churches, and patronize our merchants.   Enjoy your stay in our fair city!


Washington, Kansas . . . a small town that has it all! Located in North Central Kansas at the junction of U.S. 36 and K-15, Washington is a friendly, caring community that is proud of its infrastructure and invites you to spend a day with us. 

The quality of life is very pleasant in the splendor of the Midwest where we enjoy the beauty of all four seasons, with no pollution, no stop lights, a low crime rate, and hard-working, caring people. Recreation is a priority in Washington. A spacious park provides a picnic area, play area, fairgrounds, rodeo arena, swimming pool, tennis court, basketball court, sand volleyball court, two softball diamonds, small car race track, and RV parking with hook-ups. 

In addition to 1,200 friendly people and over 70 businesses that call Washington home, the city boasts a beautiful up-to-date library, a 9-hole grass green golf course, & an 8-lane bowling center. 

Washington has good quality health care with doctors, dentists, optometrists, and chiropractors serving the community. The Washington Clinic and the Washington County Hospital continue to work diligently to bring us the best possible care by creatively meeting the challenges of today's health care needs. 

There are organizations for everyone: High School Booster Club, 4-H Clubs, Boy & Girl Scouts, Lions Club, Rotary Club, Extension Homemakers Units, Bridge Clubs, Study Clubs & Order of the Eastern Star. 

The City of Washington offers a 38-acre industrial park with incentives. For more information about economic development opportunities, business and industrial locations in the city, contact the Washington city administrator at (785) 325-2284.