The City of Washington was recognized in 2008 as a "Main Street Community".  With a population of 7,266, Washington centrally located in southeast Iowa just 30 minutes south of Iowa City/Coralville.  Washington, founded in 1839, is the county seat of Washington County, and is in one of the top livestock and grain producing areas in the nation.  The city offers a daily local newspaper and a local radio station.  It is home to 17 churches and over 100 social and service clubs and organizations.  Washington is a proud supporter of a great mini-bus transportation system that serves not only Washington residents, but people all over Washington county.

The fountain pictured above was constructed and dedicated in 1939 for Washington's Centennial Celebration.  It is the only one if its type in the continental United States. The fountain was refurbished in 1995 by a group of local citizens.  It features a multi-colored light show and is the focus of Central Park in downtown Washington.  The

Scene From Central Park
downtown park is surrounded by a square filled with unique retail, professional offices, and service businesses.
The community hosts several special events throughout the year.  Included is a seasonal, weekly farmer's market, band concerts, car shows, craft shows, Fourth of July celebration, Relay for Life, lighted Christmas parade, Christmas Tour of Homes, and several annual parades.  These popular community events are held in Central Park and around the square.

Washington's extensive park system offers endless recreational opportunities.  Included is Sunset Park with its enormous New Dawn at Sunset wooden playground, fantastic aquatic center, an 18 hole frisbee golf course, bike/skateboard area, picnic tables, basketball courts, and a dog park.  Shelters are available for gatherings and reunions.

The 13-mile Kewash Nature Trail offers excellent hiking, biking, and cross country skiing opportunities.  Convenient access to the trail is available close to Sunset Park.  Plans are currently

Courthouse from Central Park
being developed to extend the biking trail into the city from the Kewash.
In addition, the Washington Community Y offers organized youth and adult sports activities, a senior center, weight and nautilus room, and with an indoor pool they offer swimming lessons for all ages and water exercise classes for adults.

There are several vintage homes and buildings in Washington which are listed on the National Register of Historical Places.  These include the 1840 DAR log house in Sunset Park, the Blair House, Conger House museum, Central Park's centennial fountain with its beautiful multicolored light show, and F-troop Military Museum.  Washington boasts a municipal band which will celebrate its 80th season in 2012!  Weekly concerts are held at the open-air bandstand in Central Park during the summer months. The McCleery Community Center is a 22,000 square foot modern structure accommodating cultural and educational programming for the surrounding area.